Let's work through this exercise and
then I'll show you how to look up things,
both in the man page and on the Internet.
Don't be afraid to Google things.
You will see me Google things
in this class because again,
I don't remember all the stuff
off the top of my head.
No one does, and that's okay.
What I've learned about software
engineering in all my years is you seem to
know what to look for,
when it comes to solution finding.
So hopefully this exercise
wasn't too tasking for you,
it was probably really simple,
if you had any sort of familiarity.
But I wanna get you warmed up with your
terminal on the command line because this
is where we're gonna
be doing all our work.
So let's go ahead and fire this up.
So, the first step was navigating
to your home directory.
Your home directory,
you can shortcut using the tilde.
So cd there, and if I wanna say,
am I sure I'm in my home directory?
So we'll say pwd,
which is print working directory.
So if you wanna navigate
your home directory,
the tilde is gonna be faster but you
can always say /users/ whoever you are.
And I guess not everybody knows this,
but you should.
If not, I'm about to blow your mind.
Tab autocomplete works very well.
So if I'm like,
who are in the users directory?
I can just jump to Jem, that's me.
I just type J and
I'll tab and takes me there.
But cd tilde is the one you probably
just need to remember cuz a lot of
what we're gonna do is
in the home directory.
So next,
let's make a directory called temp.
So we're gonna use the mkdir command,
mkdir temp,
and if we do a quick ls, we'll see
there's something called temp, and
I've made a few other
temp files there too.
So let's move into temp, All right,
let's ls, this should be empty.
Let's make a file called hello.
So we can just touch hello, we ls again.
We see there is a file now called hello.
And again the file has no extension,
has no type,
it's just a blob of data on
your hard disk right now.
So next was to list
the directory contents.
We said ls, list contents.
Why is it called ls?
Now I'm curious.
So I'm gonna man ls, so
the manual page for ls.
It does not explain why it's called ls.
Sometimes what I love about the man
pages is they are standardized in
terms of the name,
the description, things like that.
But it's really dependent on the person
who wrote it and at what time they wrote
it, which is like a fantastic look
into software engineering itself.
Sometimes these have colorful
history of the commands.
Sometimes they're snarky.
Sometimes they're super deadpan.
The man pages are like a hidden gem
in the software engineering world.
I was really hoping this would
explain why ls is called ls and
not ld, it does not, that's okay.
If we scroll down, we can see some
of the flags that we can use.
And the flags I like to use,
I won't go through this whole thing,
cuz man pages are very, very, very long.
But if you wanna find something,
you could type a forward slash and
I'll say -a is what I'm looking for.
And so forward slash in the man page,
and actually,
most of the ways of listing file contents,
which we will talk about much later.
But for now, less or cat or any of these
forward slash and what you're looking for
will help you find in the man page.
So the ls command or
the flags that I use a lot is ls-la.
l will show the details, the permissions,
the size, last modified time, etc.
The a will show the hidden files.
So by default, dot files aren't seen.
So something like your gitignore
won't show up in a standard ls.
And you'd be like, I'm pretty sure
it's there, but I haven't seen it.
You just need to use the -a command.
All right, so we've listed directory
contents, let's move back out.
So how do we move out?
We cd, so that's change directory,
that will actually make sense.
We're gonna say dot dot, and
now we're back one level up.
Now we can cd ../ ../ ../
../ as far as we want,
but we actually can only move so far.
The file system doesn't go to infinity,
it goes up to /.
Slash is known as root,
the root of your file system.
We can say ls there, and you see all the
things that compose your operating system
and your file system itself.
But that's not really
where we're trying to be.
We generally don't mess anything in root.
If you're ever in root,
you probably shouldn't be,
you really don't ever need to be here
unless you really know what you're doing.
So let's go back home, and you remember
the shortcut for going back home, cd~.
So much faster than
saying cd/user/ whatever.
And then our next command,
we said we're going to delete temp.
Remember I said rmdir doesn't work if
there's anything in the directory?
Yeah, by personal opinion, and I know the
Linux fanboys will probably jump on me.
I don't know why rmdir exists.
I just rmdir exists, I just rm everything.
It's a cool command, but generally
we're almost never gonna use rmdir.
We're always gonna use rm.
So we're gonna say rm temp.
We're saying temp is a directory, cuz rm
only works for files, so we can force it,
we say rm-rf.
That way it forces the delete,
whether it's a directory or not.
It'll delete anything,
which is a dangerous command.
And then r is just recursive.
It'll go through and delete everything.
But let me double check that r.
I'm saying it's recursive
cuz my mind is there,
but I'm not quite sure,
so let's look it up.
We'll say -r,
equivalent to capital R, great.
So let's jump to capital R, nope.
/R, why you do this to the man pages?
I could just scroll up,
that's probably what it's telling me.
Yeah, so I would say this is
the equivalent of recursion.
It'll just go through and make sure every
single file is deleted versus just the top
level file,
then you get into a weird state.
Mark, was there a question there?
>> Yeah, just a few people were having
problems exiting the man pages.
>> Man, see where we man rm, q.
Yep, it wouldn't show up cuz I typed q and
it just exits.